HybriMoE: Hybrid CPU-GPU Scheduling and Cache
Management for Efficient MoE Inference
Shuzhang Zhong 1,2, Yanfan Sun 5, Ling Liang 2, Runsheng Wang 2,3,4, Ru Huang 2,3,4, Meng Li 1,2,4∗
1Institute for Artificial Intelligence, Peking University, Beijing, China
2School of Integrated Circuits, Peking University, Beijing, China
3Institute of Electronic Design Automation, Peking University, Wuxi, China
4Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Integrated Circuits, Beijing, China
5School of Computer Science and Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, China
Abstract—The Mixture of Experts (MoE) architecture has demon-
strated significant advantages as it enables to increase the model capacity
without a proportional increase in computation. However, the large MoE
model size still introduces substantial memory demands, which usually
requires expert offloading on resource-constrained platforms and incurs
significant overhead. Hybrid CPU-GPU inference has been proposed
to leverage CPU computation to reduce expert loading overhead but
faces major challenges: on one hand, the expert activation patterns of
MoE models are highly unstable, rendering the fixed mapping strategies
in existing works inefficient; on the other hand, the hybrid CPU-GPU
schedule for MoE is inherently complex due to the diverse expert sizes,
structures, uneven workload distribution, etc. To address these challenges,
in this paper, we propose HybriMoE, a hybrid CPU-GPU inference
framework that improves resource utilization through a novel CPU-GPU
scheduling and cache management system. HybriMoE introduces (i) a
dynamic intra-layer scheduling strategy to balance workloads across CPU
and GPU, (ii) an impact-driven inter-layer prefetching algorithm, and (iii)
a score-based caching algorithm to mitigate expert activation instability.
We implement HybriMoE on top of the kTransformers framework and
evaluate it on three widely used MoE-based LLMs. Experimental results
demonstrate that HybriMoE achieves an average speedup of 1.33× in
the prefill stage and 1.70× in the decode stage compared to state-of-
the-art hybrid MoE inference framework. Our code is available at:
https://github.com/PKU-SEC-Lab/HybriMoE.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Mixture of Experts (MoE) has emerged as a promising solution to
enhance computational efficiency of Large Language Models (LLMs)
without compromising model performance [1], [2]. By employing
dynamic routing functions that allocate input tokens to a subset of
experts, MoE enables the scaling of LLM parameters and capabilities
without a proportional increase in computational demands.
Despite its advantages, MoE introduces significant memory re-
quirements, which pose a particular challenge for deployment on edge
devices with limited memory resources. To mitigate this issue, expert
offloading techniques store expert weights in secondary storage, such
as CPU memory or SSDs, and load them into GPU memory through
PCIE on demand [3]. In such offloading scenarios, the primary
bottleneck becomes the overhead associated with on-demand loading,
driven by the large communication scale and limited bandwidth. To
mitigate this problem, several studies have explored quantization,
prefetching or caching techniques to reduce latency [4]–[7].
Previous works in other offloading scenarios have further explored
leveraging CPU computation to reduce the frequency of memory
This work was supported in part by NSFC under Grant 62495102 and Grant
92464104, in part by the National Key Research and Development Program
under Grant 2024YFB4505004, in part by Beijing Municipal Science and
Technology Program under Grant Z241100004224015, and in part by 111
Project under Grant B18001.
∗Corresponding author: meng.li@pku.edu.cn
Expert 1 Expert 2
On-demand loading 4
Expert 3 Expert 4 Expert 5 Expert 6
On-demand loading 5 On-demand loading 6
Expert 1 Expert 2
On-demand loading 4
Expert 3 Expert 4
Expert 5 Expert 6
Expert 1 Expert 2
On-demand loading 5
Expert 5
Expert 3 Expert 4 Expert 6
(a) On-demand loading timeline 
(b) Unbalanced hybrid CPU-GPU timeline 
(c) Balanced hybrid CPU-GPU timeline 
Time
GPU
PCIE
GPU
PCIE
CPU
GPU
PCIE
CPU
Expected speedup
Expected speedup
Fig. 1. Execution timeline of three scenarios. Expert computation time on
the GPU remains constant, while CPU execution time increases linearly with
workload. The balanced scheduling in (c) achieves improved utilization and
reduces overall execution time.
transfers [8], [9]. Techniques such as PowerInfer [10] and Caraserve
[11] have achieved notable success by exploiting activation patterns
or optimizing adapter usage during inference. Similarly, MoE-specific
offloading approaches, including Fiddler [12] and kTransformers [13],
utilize the CPU to execute expert layers during cache misses. As
illustrated in Figure 1, when a cache miss occurs, the CPU processes
the corresponding expert computation instead of transferring the layer
to the GPU, reducing data transfer overhead.
While CPU computation is effective for traditional inference
tasks, MoE models present unique challenges that complicate their
application. Expert activations in MoE models are typically less
skewed and exhibit significant variability across iterations, making
it difficult to predict which experts will be activated [6]. This
dynamic behavior complicates the balancing of workloads between
CPU and GPU, as static task allocation strategies fail to adapt to real-
time changes in workload distribution. However, existing solutions
rely on fixed mapping strategies based on historical activation
frequencies, neglecting the dynamic and unpredictable nature of MoE
inference. These limitations result in suboptimal resource utilization
and increased inference latency as illustrated in figure 1(b) and (c).
In light of these challenges and opportunities, we propose Hybri-
MoE, a hybrid CPU-GPU scheduling and cache management system
to improve the efficiency of MoE inference. Reducing latency in
hybrid systems requires maximizing hardware resource utilization,
which depends on effective task-to-hardware mapping. However,
the dynamic nature of MoE models poses significant challenges to
designing optimal mapping strategies. To address this, HybriMoE
introduces a comprehensive optimization framework to improve map-
ping efficiency through three key directions: (i) intra-layer hybrid
scheduling, (ii) inter-layer prefetching, and (iii) inter-iteration cache
2025 62nd ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC) | 979-8-3315-0304-8/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/DAC63849.2025.11133274
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on March 08,2026 at 09:03:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 