Norm
Self-Attention
Norm
MoE Block
1 2 N1 2 3 ...
Router
Shared Experts Routed Experts
...
Fig. 2. An example of MoE architecture with shared and routed experts.
management. The key contributions of HybriMoE are as follows:
• Hybrid MoE CPU-GPU Scheduling. An efficient hybrid
scheduling algorithm for MoE inference that dynamically bal-
ances workloads across GPUs and CPUs, optimizing resource
utilization and minimizing latency through prioritized task exe-
cution and data transfer management.
• Impact-driven prefetching. A prefetching mechanism that sim-
ulates the potential impact of preloading experts from subse-
quent layers and prioritizes those with the higher expected gains.
• MoE-specialized Cache Management. An expert score-based
caching strategy that prioritizes high-demand experts across
layers to minimize cache misses.
• System Implementation. We implement HybriMoE on top
of ktransformers framework. We evaluate HybriMoE on three
popular MoE-based LLMs and various platforms. Compared to
existing hybrid scheduling methods, HybriMoE achieves 1.33 ×
and 1.70x speedup on prefill and decode stages respectively.
II. B ACKGROUND
A. Mixture-of-Experts
Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models offer an efficient solution for
handling the computational demands of LLMs by activating only a
subset of experts [2], [14]–[16]. Unlike traditional dense networks,
MoE models use a gating function G to select which experts process
a given input token, reducing the number of active parameters and
improving computational efficiency. Given an input x and N experts
E0, ...EN −1 the output y of the MoE layer can be expressed as:
y =
N −1X
i=0
Softmax(TopK(x · Wg))iEi(x) (1)
The total number of experts N and the number of activated experts
K vary among different MoE implementations. For instance, the
Mixtral model employs 8 experts, with only 2 being active at a time
[17]. In contrast, DeepSeek utilizes 64 experts, activating 6 at once.
This larger, finer-grained expert pool allows for greater specialization
and more efficient knowledge acquisition [18], [19]. Additionally,
as shown in figure 2, DeepSeek employs a shared expert strategy,
where a subset of experts—known as shared experts—are activated
for all tokens. The original experts are defined as routed experts.
This reduces redundancy among experts, ensuring efficient processing
by minimizing unnecessary computational overlap, thus enhancing
overall model efficiency.
B. Efficient MoE Offloading
Parameter-offloading techniques have been proposed to address the
significant memory requirements of large language models (LLMs)
[20], [21]. However, these techniques are primarily designed for dense
models and involve loading or prefetching all parameters, leading to
unnecessary communication overhead. To accommodate the sparse
TABLE I
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING OFFLOADING WORKS .
Offload
Granularity
CPU
Computation
Dynamic
Mapping
Cache
Optimization
Powerinfer Neuron Decode ✓ LFU
llama.cpp Layer Prefill+Decode × LFU
AdapMoE Expert × ✓ LRU
KTrans Expert Decode × LFU
Ours Expert Prefill+Decode ✓ Score-Aware
activation patterns in Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models, several spe-
cialized techniques have been introduced, including advanced gating,
prefetching, and quantization strategies [3]–[7], [22]–[26]. These
methods aim to minimize the on-demand loading overhead, reducing
unnecessary memory transfers and improving overall performance.
C. Hybrid CPU-GPU Scheduling
Previous offloading techniques have primarily focused on reducing
memory transfer overhead by offloading certain computations to
the CPU [9]. For instance, PowerInfer [10] reduces GPU mem-
ory demand by executing less frequently activated neurons on the
CPU, taking advantage of skewed activation patterns. Caraserve
[11] addresses cold-start delays in LoRA serving by utilizing CPU
assistance and employing rank-aware scheduling to reduce latency.
These methods are effective in scenarios where activations are skewed
or tasks have long periods of parameter reuse.
In the context of MoE models, techniques like Fiddler [12] and
kTransformers [13] extend this concept by offloading expert layer
computation to the CPU during cache misses. Specifically, when an
expert is not in the GPU cache, the CPU executes the corresponding
expert layer instead of loading it from memory. These approaches
aim to optimize memory usage by exploiting CPU-GPU parallelism
and mitigating the overhead of loading large models onto the GPU.
In table I, we compare HybriMoE with prior-art works qualita-
tively. As can be observed, HybriMoE features CPU-GPU hybrid
scheduling to improve the efficiency of both prefill and decode stages.
III. M OTIVATION
The primary bottleneck in existing hybrid CPU-GPU scheduling
for MoE inference is the suboptimal resource utilization. To address
this issue, we begin by analyzing the main challenges of finding an
efficient mapping strategy.
Challenge 1: High Instability of MoE Activation Patterns. In
existing hybrid CPU-GPU scheduling research, both sparse models
with highly skewed activations, like PowerInfer, and dense models
(or LoRA inference) exhibit relatively stable activation patterns. In
these models, activation is either concentrated on a few ‘hot’ neurons
or remains consistent over time, making scheduling and workload
balancing easier. In contrast, MoE models have unpredictable ac-
tivation patterns, with experts being activated in a dynamic and
frequently changing manner. As shown in figure 3(a), compared with
neuron-level sparsity, the activation frequency of MoE is more evenly
distributed, making it challenging to predict the future expert usage.
This lack of stability makes it difficult to determine an optimal CPU-
GPU scheduling strategy in advance, leading to suboptimal resource
utilization and inefficiency.
Opportunity 1: MoE-specific Cache and Prefetch Optimiza-
tion. Despite the instability of MoE activations, certain temporal
and structural patterns present opportunities for optimization. The
temporal correlation of expert activation provides a basis for cache
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on March 08,2026 at 09:03:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 